Hey, everyone. Andreas, Harut, Lauren, Jeffren, and Joshua. All of you, welcome to the show.
So exciting to have you here.
Thank you so much. I'm really happy to be here.
Same. Yeah, it's great to be here.
Yeah. This is going to be a really fun topic. And I think it's one that puts Python into an
interesting space. Python's really popular, as everyone listening knows. Its growth has been
super, super high since 2012, and yet it really doesn't play a huge part in mobile apps. Although
we do have some folks representing Kivi here via their app, which is pretty awesome. So I'm very
excited about that. But it's not the first language you might pick for writing mobile apps
if you just say, all I care about is mobile apps. I just want to get started there.
But I think there's a lot of things that Python plays a part in, backend services. And I'm really
excited to hear about the Kivi experience as well. So there's a ton of Python people out there who
either are building or want to build some kind of mobile app. It's obviously one of the most
important computing platforms. So I think everyone's going to learn from everyone's
experience here. So I think let's just, I guess I'll go around by app. That's the best way I can
kind of know to do this and have you all introduce yourself. And then actually, let's just have you
introduce yourself. Then we'll talk about the app. So Andreas, we'll go around the Brady Bunch
circle of pictures we got on the screen here. Andreas, go first. Tell folks about yourself.
Yeah, my name is Andreas. I live and work in Stockholm, Sweden. And I've been working with
Python for about 10 years now and have been working with, I used to work for an online
tailor-made suit company where we developed the platform ourselves. And now I'm working
with a membership management company,
which is a Django app that we are running in the background.
Nice. Very exciting.
Looking forward to hearing about it.
Harut.
Hey, guys. My name is Harut.
I have been working in Python for, like, let's say a decade on and off.
My background is in applied and computational math.
So I did a lot of MATLAB in college
and then found my way kind of over into Python.
did some data analytics, some data science, and then for the past few years found that
building tools for people is actually what I really enjoy. So I do a lot of work with data
visualization, a lot of JavaScript, but if there's one thing that's been consistent in the past 10
years, it's been my Python usage overall. Awesome. And that's kind of how I started as well,
building scientific tools and stuff. Lauren. Hi everyone. Yeah, my name is Lauren. I've been
programming since 2020. Prior to that, it was basically as a direct result of COVID. Prior to
that I was a live sound engineer so setting up for concerts and corporate events all that
all that went away pretty much overnight in March 2020 so yeah I started learning programming
landed on Flutter that's my main thing fast forward a couple years I had to finish up
a contract with a company called t-vision insights likely for me most of their services are written
in Python one of the lead engineers there is a fan of both your podcasts Michael and gave me a tip
that you're looking for a Flutter developer which brings me here so I was involved in building the
Python mobile app. Yeah, now I'm on the Flutter team for an insurance company. I did not write
any Python until I had finished the mobile app, but I had sat through a lot of those courses
throughout the development process, kind of landed on FastAPI for my backend services,
really like it, was really impressed with how easy it was to get started and all that. So yeah,
that's where I'm at. Yeah, awesome. I'm really looking forward to talking to you,
sort of the interplay of how we work together to build that mobile app. And it's just so well
received. It's such a solid app. The only people who don't seem to receive it well is the App Store
people. We'll save that for later. If anyone wants to see me cry, there's a good chance at the end of
this episode, I will just be in tears. But we'll save that for later. But I do want to ask, I mean,
I think that's a really interesting background. And people, a lot of people listen to this show,
and they feel like they hear from guests who are like, yeah, I got my computer science degree.
I was like an accelerated student.
So I got it when I was 16 and then, you know, like they're like, well, I admire
this person and they're doing awesome stuff, but I didn't get my computer science degree
at 16.
Like I was still in high school and I didn't start programming until I was 30 or, you know,
and is there still a place for me?
And I think you've super excelled at that in honestly with flutter and dart, which is
not one of the simpler beginner, more beginner friendly language.
It's a pretty seriously structured language.
So maybe just give people your thoughts of your three-year journey, I guess, at this point.
Yeah.
So first of all, thank you for saying that.
And yeah, I listened to your podcast.
You have some very impressive people on your show.
But yeah, I didn't write my first line of code until 36, right?
It was a weird time, 2020, obviously.
But to be fair, I did have a lot of time on my hands, like many of us did very abruptly.
So I kind of went all in, you know, that's just, I got hooked fast and had a lot of fun.
You know, it's kind of thing.
Not everybody gravitates towards programming.
They try it.
They don't like it.
It's not for everybody to be fair.
Right.
But, you know, all it is, is consistency and putting in the time.
If you don't have a degree, it's fine.
I even show Flutter is not like, if you're looking for a job, there are better technologies
to choose if you're, if you're just trying to, you know, land a job, right.
Python, obviously way more ubiquitous in terms of finding a job, even on the front end, learning
something like React, way more jobs. But all that to say, it's still possible. I didn't go to college
for audio or programming. But again, put in the time consistency, the job hunting process was not
particularly fun. It's pretty grueling. But sooner or later, you just keep at it and you can get
there. So it's never too late to get started. Awesome. Yeah. Well, I know you're doing good
stuff these days. That's great. Yeah. Jeffrey and Joshua. Hey guys. Hello. Hello. Hello.
Hello. First of all, my name is Joshua. His name is Jeffrey and J. Friend Julian. And
he is not, we are from Colombia and he is a Spanish speaker. So he doesn't know to speak
English so I'm here. Sure sure. Yes. Excellent. Okay. Oh wonderful. Well welcome to both of you.
Okay. Yeah. Tell us a bit about yourselves. Okay. Julián who is the main programmer or designer of
his app and started like 15 years ago when he was playing some video games and he wanted wanted to
to know how did they work so he started to to look for it and and started
programming you know like and self-talked people and that's it and he
started a career a university career and and he's a very talented designer and I
say no as a friend so he is a very close friend of mine and I can say you I can
saying I can tell you that. So yeah, cool. Yeah, you bet. You bet. All right. Well,
I think maybe the right place to start our conversation now everybody knows all of you
is just a quick introduction to your apps. And then we'll dive into maybe the first thing is
everyone here has chosen a different framework, a different language. I think that is in and of
itself is pretty interesting that that we're all here as fans of python or with some kind of python
roots or or interest and yet that is not no you know it's not necessarily what we chose to write
the absence so uh i think that's going to be a real interesting conversation but let's uh jump over
and maybe start with uh this one so pin planet i forgot which app goes with which person or group
So we'll have to just jump in.
Who's pin planet.
So that's your route.
Okay, go.
Yeah.
So I'm the creator of pin planet.
The idea started from actually started from my girlfriend in December, 2020 or October,
2021.
I'm sorry.
She's, she's a big traveler.
She's always wanted a way to kind of curate all of her travels, kind of keep them in one
place.
And the thing that she told me at the time that really sold me was I want to be able to
show all my friends, like my place I've traveled to with pins on a 3d globe that spins, which is
actually the second screenshot on this on the screen for I guess for people who are watching
the live stream. And then from there, I was just I was sold. So I started I started building this.
I will say that the original version of this was actually a web app, a progressive web app. And I
was a huge proponent of it at the time. But for anybody who's used PWAs, they know the experience
on both Apple and Google,
somehow both of them are just not that great.
You just cannot seem to win.
And we've trained users for what,
like a decade to look for apps in the app store.
So that's also kind of a pain.
But the app-
Yeah, you can't really list your progressive web app
in the app store, right?
I think actually progressive web apps might be passable
because there's a lot of bad frameworks out there
that they would compete with.
But the discoverability is the killer, right?
Yeah, it's quite tough.
So I ended up building this app about three or four months into it.
I brought my friend Andrew as well.
I'm actually sitting in his office right now.
He does quite a lot of Python as well.
More Python than I do.
He's the person that I kind of look up to when it comes to writing.
I can't forget.
I forgot the word for it now.
Not Pythonista, but it'll come to me.
Oh, writing more Pythonic code.
Yes.
So, and then, and then from there, some, I think somewhere around the summer, I decided,
okay, you know what, this is, the app is gaining a lot of traction, but people want a native
experience.
So I kind of took the plunge, learned Swift and SwiftUI, which is a really awesome framework
released by Apple.
And then we, we released the, we released the native version, which focuses
on like, you can pin all your places, you can add your spots, your reviews, your photos,
you can add travel buddies.
You guys can collaborate on trips together.
There's a really cool explore page where you can see kind of the best pins that other people have put up.
And we're just, you know, adding more features over time.
It's gaining traction.
It's a lot of fun.
It's really exciting.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
I see that it's, well, first of all, it has five star review out of a bunch of ratings, which is pretty ridiculous.
That's awesome.
Also that it's free, though.
Is it just free free?
Is there in-app purchases?
As of right now, it's completely free.
Yeah.
right right just just looking for growth and traction and you'll figure it out
yeah oh actually since you're on the screenshots michael i do want to say thank you for the tip
the screenshots pro website or web app oh yeah that helped out quite a bit yeah yeah well it's
pay it forward because uh lauren suggested that to me from his app and so it goes all right cool
and and on again yeah so we use screenshot i believe was screenshots
pro let me screen screenshots.pro is the app that i i use yeah you couldn't come up with really
fantastic looking screenshots i'm super happy with how that came out for sure okay um all right my
club yeah my club that's mine um and my club is like i said previously it's a membership
management program.
We've previously been working with progressive web apps as well,
but we had a Ruby on Rails developer who did those,
and we are a Django backend where most of the information was.
So we had a lot of different servers connecting to our backend
and doing all of these strange things instead of just having one app.
And exactly like Harud talked about, you need to have your app
on the app store because there's a lot of people asking where is your app even though we did have
like progressive web apps and you were able to see everything but what we have now is we've
developed so that all of our users can handle the members with their invoices their memberships in
various groups and so on to handle if they're going to certain trainings or or going to certain
meetups and just answer to that in the app.
Nice.
And we also have like push notifications and all of that as well.
Yeah, I think one of the main reasons people might want to create an app as a business
is for the notifications because that's an interesting way to reach out for sure.
Yeah, it really has helped a lot as well.
I mean, just being on the App Store, regardless if you're on Android or on iOS,
just being there actually means that things start to happen with the usage and so on.
We have about, I think, in total about 8,000 installs on these apps,
which going from nothing about half a year ago is rather good for us.
We're a rather small company, so it's really...
Yeah, that's really good.
Really good.
All right.
Jeff and Joshua?
Oh, sorry.
I'm sorry.
Everything's in Swedish.
We are a Swedish company, and we don't have anything translated into English yet.
You know, the screenshots are awesome, and I think it makes perfect sense, right?
Not everything needs to be in English, even though it does seem like it some of the times
I suppose. All right. V3D. Let's talk about that, guys.
Okay. Jeffrey is going to talk in Spanish, and I'm going to translate. Yeah?
Okay. Thanks.
V3D is an app that he started the design,
in the pandemic in 2020. Inicialmente era para mostrar gráficos 3D ya que como hobby soy modelador
3D en el software de Blender. It was initially just to show graphics on 3D and because he is a
es un developer for for this poco a poco vinieron más ideas y quise seguir la programación llevándolas
al punto en el que está hoy donde soporta texturizado creación de materiales también
soporta mando de control xbox y tiene un módulo de realidad virtual y esta valla está ahí came up
with some ideas to implement to the app,
like featuring and modeling.
We can use an Xbox controller.
Yes, it has a lot of featureings.
That's pretty cool to use the Xbox controller
with the mobile devices, yeah.
Yes.
actualmente estoy trabajando en una actualización que involucra texturizado
con imágenes de movimiento sigo trabajando en ella y próximamente será lanzada hey i'm currently
working on and animated and textures features yes and i'm working on it and very soon is going to
be ready. Awesome. Yeah, this looks like an amazing app. And this, this is built in Kivi. Yeah.
Thank you. See? Excellent. Yeah, cool. All right. Awesome. Now,
Lauren, I was going to pull up and I will pull up the Talk Python app that we built together,
the mobile app that you built in the back and stuff that I built. But you also have an app that
you recently built just straight and fluttered.
Let's maybe just pull that up real quick as well.
I have it installed and I like it, but I don't remember exactly what to search for.
Oh, thanks.
Yeah, it's called Epic Skies.
It's just a weather app.
Epic Skies.
That's right.
Yeah.
There you go.
Yeah, so that's a beautiful app as well.
So you've got a couple apps out in the app store now, right?
Well, yeah, this and as far as apps that I built myself, yeah, this one, which was released
maybe a month ago and your app, the Talk Python app.
Yeah, yeah.
So this one is straight Flutter, not too many backends, right?
Probably consumes like some public weather API data somewhere?
Correct.
That's correct.
Yeah.
But that being said, having taken your async Mongo Python course, FastAPI, as I go to
implement push notifications, the backend logic will be in Python and determining who
gets what local weather alerts.
All that will be, the app is already deployed.
I just don't have the features.
I don't have all that functionality built yet, but yeah, backend for this handling the notifications will be Python.
Okay. Awesome. Yeah. That's, that's really cool. Yeah.
So you had a couple of releases this, this year so far.
And so then also I'll let you talk about it since you built most of the front end stuff.
Yeah. The talk Python app.
Sure. Yeah. I imagine most of the listeners are also students.
So, you know, maybe a lot of people listening have used it,
But basically, it's a mobile app that allows students of Talk Python training to consume their video courses, right?
Similar to Udemy or something like that.
Yeah.
It talks to your very fast backend written in Python.
Pulls in the user info, what courses they have access to.
We track what lectures the users have watched so that it's in sync.
If they go to the web app, all that stays nicely in sync.
Yeah, written completely in Flutter.
There were no--
it relies very heavily on video player, obviously.
But all these libraries that we rely very heavily on
are just available as Dart libraries.
So I didn't have to write not a single line of native code
as far as that goes.
Even when Apple made us do in-app purchases
or, for example, showing the progress in the notification
bar, there's libraries for all of that.
So yeah, I think I'm grateful you chose Flutter as this
because I got to be involved,
but I also think it was an excellent choice
that you could have made.
I think it was an excellent choice as well.
Maybe let's go and talk about that
because I can see some good questions out in the audience.
And I also open the show like this, right?
There are many ways in which you can build these apps
and Lauren was just touching on it.
how close do you need to be to native and use the exact API delivered by Apple or Google?
Or how much do you care about cross-platform?
Because on this one, for example, you can get it on Google Play, you can get it on the App Store.
The only real change is there's different rules.
And so, for example, you can't talk about prices or you've got to do in-app purchases on Apple.
Or, you know, there's little variations that they force from their policies onto you.
But otherwise, it's just the same code.
same code for
iPad and tablet
as it is for mobile
as opposed to Haru who has the
Swift project which is awesome
but you're really tied to Apple but you
also get to take advantage of
the closest changes
the build publish stuff doesn't
keep running into weird issues when there's some
mismatch I mean
you want to strike fear into your heart
just mention new release of Xcode and then
that literally
building something on xcode 15 beta 8 and it was a huge pain to install didn't build for no reason
it's it's completely unclear no documentation whatsoever yeah yeah it's it's it's not great
so let's talk about choosing the framework and i'll just go through the i got a bunch of tabs
pull up so we can talk about them um andreas you chose ionic tell people what ionic is and then why
why you chose it yeah ionic is a way to create applications that can be delivered both to you to
to uh like normal website uh to android and to ios so we get all of the functionality and only need
to write the code once uh what it really is in our case we chose uh to write everything in angular so
So it's a web view running on the mobile phones.
So you actually get just a simple server running on the mobile phone and also on iPads, of course.
Then we also get connectors to the phone for doing things like push notifications.
You can connect to the photo library and also to the web camera and so on.
So you can get all of that functionality into your app as well.
The only difference being is that you only have to implement it once and it works on all of these three platforms.
You can even get camera functionality on the web application as well that is running in a normal Angular platform.
um so yeah that's and the reason we chose ionic was that we're a very small team we're only three
developers uh i i and one of the me and the other one of the other developers had some experience
of angular i've released other applications in angular and we decided that that would be the way
to go. So yeah, that's really why we chose Ionic. And what it does have, it has style sheets for
each type of application. So you have one style sheet for the web, you have one style sheet for
iOS, and you have one style sheet for Android. So each button gets styled so it looks like an
Android button or an iOS button and so on in the system as well. Are you all using the Ionic
framework for your web app as well? Yes. Yes. Okay. Now that's interesting. That's a different
level of integration there, or a reuse. That's pretty interesting. Yeah. Well, the thing is,
for us, just this specific application, because what we did have previously, we had a progressive
web app that was written on Ruby on Rails. And the Ruby on Rails developer decided to go elsewhere,
which meant that me and another Python guy had a Ruby on Rails application that we had to take care
I have read some Ruby on Rails.
I've also written some Ruby on Rails previously,
but it's like, is that 15 years ago, I think?
So that's not something that we wanted to keep up with.
And what we do need to do, we need the deep linking,
which means that if you get a URL in an email,
because we send out notifications for invoices, for example,
you get a URL in your email, you click on that,
you either go to the web application if you don't have the app installed on your mobile phone,
or you can get into the application directly if you have it installed on your phone.
So that type of integration is very important for us as well.
Yeah.
Yeah, and it's worth pointing out Ionic is cross-platform, not just web to mobile, as I'm learning,
but also so you can publish in the Google Play Store, you can publish in the Apple App Store.
Yeah. We publish in all app stores and then we also have it on the web on its own URL as well. It needs certain documents in the web application to actually make sure that deep linking works in the mobile space as well so that we can get to the right mobile phone application and so on as well.
Yeah. Did you look at other frameworks? Were you thinking of maybe going through native and writing in Swift or other things?
No, the main thing is, like I said, we're a small team and we needed to do something that was rather simple, things that we knew something about.
The other main developer, he is a Python Django developer.
I worked with him also on that online suit, tailored suit company that we had previously.
And we've been working with Django for a very long time.
And just changing to like writing something in Swift or writing, then needing to also do it in Java for an Android application would be too much hassle for us.
And therefore, we chose something that we sort of thought that we would be more or less comfortable
with.
It's still just HTML, CSS, and it's some TypeScript, which is like a better version of JavaScript.
Yeah.
Okay.
Excellent.
Angular, yeah.
All right.
So, Swift is next in my list of things I got here to show.
So, Harut, that's you.
Okay.
What was the question again?
Why we chose the framework?
- Yeah, well, what is your framework?
I mean, you kind of mentioned this a little bit,
but why did you choose this?
And like, you know, did you look at others?
And yeah, I think this is actually the biggest choice
people have to make when they're building an app.
It's like, what do I even,
which direction do I even go?
Even if I'm sure I'm doing Python in the backend,
then still that doesn't solve this problem necessarily.
- Yeah, okay.
So I guess maybe the story will make
a little bit more sense.
I mentioned earlier that the initial version was a PWA.
That's mostly because my background is web development.
I write a lot of Vue as well.
However, the PWA was difficult for discoverability.
And then I had to make the really tough choice of, okay, what's kind of the next thing to do?
I really did look kind of all around the landscape.
But the one thing that always kind of scared me was that if, or I guess the thing that really pushed me into going native was like, if I wanted really native functionality,
which, you know, having like been building apps for, for quite a few years now, sometimes the
things that you want to do or the things that people ask for veers off into like the, all right,
this is actually pretty custom. There's no library for this. Like we gotta, we gotta just like roll
up our sleeves and do it. I knew that if I had gone cross-platform that all my experience, let's
say for example, would have been in Flutter or React Native, which are like the two really,
really popular options. And if I now needed to write something custom, the one year of Swift
experience that I have now, I wouldn't have had. So it's like, not only am I using a really difficult
and probably not well-documented API, it's like, on top of that, I also don't even understand the
language. So I think for me, that was kind of the big, the big thing. And one of the reasons was I
always thought maybe like, we haven't done this yet, but maybe we could like amp up the camera or
do something with video players, or maybe like be a little bit more custom with, with the way that
we pull, pull our images in and take more advantage of caching and stuff. So that was where, kind
of that was the reason why i ended up ended up going with swift yeah i think it was it was a
pretty cool choice yeah and it sounds like swift UI makes it a little bit easier than you know a
bunch of storyboards and all that um yeah actually well let me say a little bit about about swift ui
it has been quite helpful i don't know if it's because i've come from the web i've heard online
that the people at apple or the people who developed swift UI were influenced by react
I could see that a little bit, having used a little bit of React.
But it is quite a bit more.
It's a lot more expressive.
It's a lot easier to write.
But let me also say that you're not going to get away with only writing SwiftUI.
Like you could do maybe 80% to 90%.
But there's that additional 10%.
You have to dip down in the UI kit and kind of put some extra stuff together.
It's still a little rough around the edges.
Yeah, I hear that that's kind of the case.
I'm always thinking of new apps and new ideas.
and then I have no time to work on them.
But the one that I have no time to work on right now
that I'm thinking of has something to do with the Apple Watch.
And there's no Flutter for Apple Watch right now.
So I'm like, well, maybe I'm going to have to learn Swift after all.
We'll see.
We'll see if I...
First, I got to find time, and then we'll come to that.
We'll solve that problem later.
Awesome.
All right.
Jefferyn, Kivy.
Why do you choose Kivy?
Hola.
mi framework favorito en este caso es es kibbe que lo conocí en el año 2011
ok en my favorite framework es que vi ahí en yo es en 2011 en ayo said because it's very stable
It's steady.
And because it has a very active community,
and it allows develop applications for many platforms
and with just one code.
So that's why he chose Kivi.
Sorry.
Okay.
Excellent.
Yeah.
So Kivi is interesting.
I have not had them on the show.
Maybe I should at some point.
I looked at Kivi and I was, I mean, if I could have done our app in Python in some way,
and I felt like it would have really lined up, it would have been great. But as kind of
Lauren was alluding to, there was a lot of little OS integrations that we had to put together. For
example, in-app purchasing, right? I don't know if Kivi supports in-app purchasing, but our app is
rejected until we add in-app purchasing, we're told, as part of this process, right? So for
example, if it didn't, then well, your app is rejected. Sorry. There's and there's just a bunch,
you know, video players. And when I look at Kivi, it looks like there's a bunch of awesome apps,
but they feel kind of very kind of game oriented and kind of create your own UI,
as opposed to some of the other ones like Flutter, where it's a little bit more like line of business
sort of standard apps.
So I don't know.
It seems like it's a really good fit, though, for vid3D,
because it kind of does have that game feel.
You've got the game controller to interact with the design, right?
So you think Kivi was a good fit for your project, Jefferyn?
Can you repeat the question, please?
Sí, parece que Kivi es una buena forma para el tipo de aplicación que Jefren construyó.
Así que fue un buen match, ¿sí?
sí
sí totalmente en cada con lo que buscado de hecho para mí es gratificante que lo
confundan con un juego porque siempre he querido que tenga ese nivel de realismo
que ofrecen los videojuegos como los frameworks de unity 3d ok es grateful
for me that kiwi really much with i look for because and is i found it nice that people
confuse it like a game because games is are realistic in some ways to control and what do you
want and what do you how do you want to and custom your car for example and if this application give
you lots of features to implement to what you want.
Yes.
Yeah.
Excellent.
OK.
Lauren, got to find the right tab.
You're up.
Flutter.
Yeah.
I don't remember if I mentioned it.
I actually started briefly with Kotlin and native Android
programming in 2020.
But once I tried Flutter, I just found the developer experience
to be exponentially better, right?
And with the added benefit of being cross-platform.
So Kotlin as a language, I think, is great.
That's not the issue.
But just the overall process of building an app
in native Android versus Flutter.
I imagine I would probably like Swift better if I tried that.
I haven't really had a need to dive too deep into it so far.
But I think Haru made some interesting points
in terms of if you need something really custom,
yeah, had he chose a cross-platform framework,
He then would have had to learn Swift and then do all that.
But I do want to make the point that you do still
have access to any native APIs that you need, right?
Even if there's not a library for it.
In Flutter, it's something called a method channel.
And then you can just-- it's just a message you sent back
to the native platform where whatever you got to do
on the native side, you can do, right?
So that being said, in terms of what really struck me
in Flutter was building UI was so much nicer
than doing it in Android.
With the hot reload, you make a change, hit save,
it immediately updates.
The widget-- so in Flutter, all your UI components
are called widgets.
If you ever look at some Flutter UI code,
I didn't really like it at first.
It looks a little bit weird if you're not used to it.
But as soon as you wrap your head around the widget tree
and how it all works and get used to using snippets
in your preferred IDE, you just say,
wrap this widget in another widget, that saves a bunch of time. It's really not fun if you're
doing that stuff manually without snippets. But all that being said, I was just so much more
productive building UIs and again, having the added benefit of being cross-platform. So
for me, it's unlikely I'll ever have a need to go native or choose a different framework for that
matter because Flutter suits all my needs.
Yeah, there you go.
So there's some code.
If somebody has never seen that, that might look a little bit weird.
Right?
It looks normal to me.
What's interesting about it is you build these hierarchies of code,
but they exactly match the UI hierarchy.
Like this panel contains these three things,
and they're kind of indented in code.
But boy, do you need a smart plug-in in your IDE
your editor to like manage the back end of those curly closing things yeah it was especially
starting out you're missing one one parentheses or one curly bracket and your page is full of red
squiggly lines and if you don't know how to sort that out you know it's not once you get used to
it it's fine but especially in the early days sorting out those closing brackets are pretty
annoying um but yeah all that being said i i found myself way more productive with flutter
really easy to build nice uis the performance is always getting better animations all that stuff
is really nice and you still have access to the full native apis if you need to use it so yeah
one of my concerns with all of these frameworks these these non non-cotland non-swift frameworks
is like well how supported are they like am i excited about something that 10 people are using
you know what i mean but it's so like a pull up ionic and ionic's got 50 000 stars and then you
know one of the other ones i definitely considered and chose is uh flutter and it's got 157 000 stars
by way of comparison flask has around i think 50 000 60 000 c python itself has 50 000 right so
like oh okay well that seems like a good enough number that people are using it
But yeah, yeah, yeah.
So awesome.
I think these are all really interesting choices.
And I think just making this choice,
it's where you got to start, but it's a challenge.
You got to think about what you're building and whatnot, right?
- Yeah, and I'd like to also add to that.
I mean, one of the main things, like you said,
one of the things that we had a bit of a worry about
was will like, for example, iOS,
the app store? Will they accept something that's coming from Ionic framework? Because you are
literally just running a web application in a web view in your app. Your app is really a small
component. And we even had in the previous versions, we had the ability to update the
underlying HTML code and the application code from a server that is on the internet. So it was really
a really strange thing, but Apple has never had any issues with our application.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
Congratulations also.
No, I don't think it's the Ionic framework.
I think there's always a weird issue.
There's just a weird review process that's there.
But I think Ionic seems to be pretty solid and that people have apps out in the app store.
Flutter, absolutely.
You can see a bunch of things like the BMW app and stuff.
kivy also um i think that's really good i think what there's i think one of the rules of thumbs
people should really have is if you're going to use a framework just look to see that there are
apps in the app store based on that framework right not proof of concept uh not theoretical
things but like here are apps in the app store based on this app and not necessarily because
it's only a good thing if the app is in the app store but you know it's there's all these little
edges right like i said in-app purchasing for example right that's something you could
you could build a cool mobile framework and never add that because you haven't gotten around to it
but if even if you don't want it if the people at the app store require you to have it your app
doesn't go in the app store until you put it in regardless of whether you even want to right which
is Lauren and I spent, how long did we spend?
Like a week and a half full time adding in that purchasing
and we didn't even want it.
Yep.
Right.
And they're like, nope, nope.
You have to have it and rejected, rejected, rejected.
You know, here's the way you can, what is it?
You can like protest this rejection to a higher authority.
Protest it, rejected.
Yeah.
It wasn't good.
So you got to think about those kinds of things
like when you choose a framework, right?
and good job on that in the end
Lauren we're not done as
we'll see but
nonetheless we're pretty much
there yeah thank you
again I had a blast working on this
it's really really nice working with you directly
really grateful to have been a part of that
yeah
there is a question in the audience I kind of
want to get I guess this
is for you Lauren this is
Alan asks looking into Flutter
I want to know the best way to integrate with AWS, for example, is Cognito an option for a signup
flow? So I don't know what Cognito is. I guess it's an authentication platform from AWS, I'm
guessing. But yeah, I mean, just maybe talk about that real quick if you've got any experience.
Yeah, sure. I don't personally have a lot of AWS experience, and I know they have like a million
separate services. So I do know that there is an AWS library for Flutter. Again, I don't know
what exactly that entails in terms of which one of their services it provides a Dart wrapper for.
But either way, it's certainly possible to integrate with any other services.
Even if you have to do it from scratch, it's obviously possible.
It's all just APIs at the end of the day.
Yeah.
I would say that every one of these frameworks we just talked about, to my knowledge,
has something like pip and PyPI, right?
At PyPI, we're all used to pip install our projects.
That's just the lifeblood of how Python works.
But for example, Flutter has pub.dev, and you can pub get stuff.
And it's an equivalent type thing, right?
Yeah, and compared to React Native, which is a little bit older, you see a lot about how they have a more robust package system.
but in my experience i've yet to run across a scenario where i did not find the library that
i needed right uh like weather app uses location there's plenty of location libraries you know yeah
yeah and ionic has um npm obviously right yeah they also have their own uh package they have
the cordova packages oh okay oh that's right okay yeah which which are are what they use for for
connecting to
the telephone itself.
So everything that you need
to do with that, you go through the
Cordova
store.
There are a lot of various packages
on the Ionic
website
themselves.
Yeah.
And
to varying degrees of success, we have Cocoa Pods
for you, Harut, right?
Now it's actually Swift Package Manager.
So it's a little bit better.
Okay.
I think it goes by SPM or I don't know.
Yeah.
A little bit easier to install, less configuration hassle overall.
Yeah, there you go.
That's because like I said, the Cocoa Paws are kind of a little bit janky, right?
They're based on like Ruby gems and then they compile.
It's just a lot of Rube Goldbergian stuff happening there.
And then, Jeffren, for Kivy, you just use pip, right?
You just pip install.
For packages in Kivy, you just use pip, yes?
And take that comment off.
Okay.
utilice la librería de ingenios y genios ellos de niños la barry
y también utilice para monetizar la aplicación en la play store con publicidad utilice equipo
Okay, and for Play Store, I use for purchasing, keep mob.
Okay, cool.
So there's third party packages that you can do in-app purchases with.
That's great.
Excellent, okay.
So.
.
And for 3D calculation, I used...
What?
- NumPy.
- Okay, excellent, yeah.
That's really cool.
That's one of the most popular ones for general science,
but I guess it's neat that it applies
right there on mobile apps.
There definitely are some advantages to having Kivi.
So this is a question for you, Andreas, I guess,
but we can maybe all have you quickly talk about this real quick,
is what are the limitations of Ionic regarding to being connected to the internet
versus being offline?
I'm guessing that that question comes from the fact that it sounds like a web app framework.
Yeah, and it is a web app framework, but it is self-contained.
So when you install the app, you get all of the JavaScript,
all of the HTML, all of the CSS that's required to make your app look like it should look on the
mobile phone. So really, it's more of how you design your application yourself. If you want,
for example, our application doesn't work without internet access, because we have all of the
information on the back end, and there's really nothing that we can do without internet access.
But you could, of course, design it that you download stuff and you use it with, there's a lot of plugins to get like in, what is it that Apple likes?
They like to use the default database that we get on all of our...
Yeah, SQLite maybe, yeah.
SQLite, thank you.
They use a lot of SQLite on the apps and you can get SQLite connectors and use that locally on the mobile phone itself.
So you can store everything if you want to
and do a complete offline experience as well.
Yeah, nice.
Laura, I know you used Block,
but did you use Block for offline capabilities?
Yeah, so for anyone not familiar,
Block is one of the many available state management libraries
for Flutter.
That's the one I prefer generally.
It's what I use at work as well.
They also have a library called hydrated block, which makes it really, really easy.
It just persists any state change within your application without having to manually write your code.
Basically, it's a to JSON and from JSON situation.
You have a state class, and as long as your state can be serialized into JSON, it just does all that in the background, which is really nice.
So there's that kind of state persistence between app sessions, but then there's also actually downloading the files for when the...
Offline was very important to you, right, as far as the functionality.
Yeah, yeah. That's one of the reasons the app existed. One of the two or three, right?
Sure, yeah. So that wasn't really... HydratedBlock was not... Actually, it saved the file path, but the actual byte, streaming of the bytes and saving the file itself,
that was just basically just the HTTP library writing that directly to the device.
And then hydrated block saves the file path the next time the user needs to watch that offline.
Right.
What's your offline story?
Right now, we don't really have an offline story.
I think it's kind of similar to other platforms.
So something like Instagram, if you don't have an internet connection, you don't really see photos.
And it's kind of similar for us right now.
OK.
Keep it simple, right?
And Jefferyn, does your app use online features,
or is it just offline?
I use the image offline.
In V3D, we use offline images.
OK, yeah, so no real internet stuff there.
Excellent.
All right, well, let's do talk a little bit about some Python,
about what's going on here.
Since we're just a little ways into the show,
I guess we could talk some Python at this point.
It's been a great conversation.
Let's just go kind of top to bottom.
Andreas, it sounds like yours is very much an online application
and has back-end services.
You already talked about the Ruby on Rails app
and getting away from that.
Tell us your story.
Give us a little sense of like,
what is your backend architecture?
And just, you know, what do you got going on with Python?
Where are some of the technologies and things there?
Yeah, well, our backend architecture
has actually just changed.
We're really proud of it now
because we've moved from our own installed servers
that have been installed via very long scripts
that you've written down exactly what you need to do
and everything.
and running our own MySQL servers and so on.
And we've moved everything into AWS.
And we're currently running in a Kubernetes setup.
So we are really proud of how that's running currently.
But we are a Django shop.
We've been running Django.
The first version was written in 2013.
And we've just iterated since then.
And we're now currently on the latest versions
of all of the dependencies that we have in PyPI as of last week.
Because we did a major upgrade,
we need to update our Redis connections for certain reasons.
But yeah, we've been running with Django
and just doing a regular Django application, really.
And that's the main part of the admin for our customers.
They use the Django app to do their administration for the memberships, sending out invoices, creating activities that they need their members to join and so on.
All of that is done more or less currently in the Django app.
And then we have the mobile application is for the members to go in and check which activities are we going to go to, which invoices do we need to pay, connect to other members in the teams or in the clubs that they are members of.
Okay.
So primarily you've got this Django app.
And I imagine that people can log into the Django app as well.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, that's really cool.
Yeah, and previously we had like a lot of Ruby on Rails servers that did certain parts of the application.
For example, we have a lot of different payment solutions for the invoices you can pay via Swish,
which is a comparison with, I think it's called Venmo or Cash App in the States.
What you do is you send money via your mobile phone number in Sweden.
And so we have a backend for handling that that used to be written in Ruby.
We've moved that into Django as well.
We also have credit card payments, which was in Ruby on Rails,
moved into Django.
So we're trying to consolidate a lot in the backend
and trying to move everything back into the Django application
and just have the mobile apps out for the members to use
to talk to the backend.
That's excellent.
There's a bit of a trend away from all that stuff, right?
There's a great article, Give Me Back My Monolith.
yeah exactly
instead of all the
microservices
the different technologies
just give me a thing
just let me put it to the app
but it sounds like
kind of like you embrace that
with Django
yeah we do
and I mean
like I said
we've got a lot of experience
with Django
me and
and the other
main developer
we've been working with Django
for
I've been working
about 10 years now
he has been working
about 15
yeah
preferred go-to solution for everything in the backyard.
I mean, you must have APIs and stuff, right?
Do you use like, what do you use for the API side of things?
Is it still just straight Django or do you have some rest framework?
We use Django rest framework.
So it's really a simple solution for that as well.
And we really enjoy working with that.
We have another guy who's come in now who is a developer I've worked with a lot
from the Ukraine.
And he's been working with us now from Poland instead,
just doing development with Django REST framework.
And he's really good at those things.
Excellent.
Yeah, it seems like a nice one.
Have you considered Django Ninja?
I've just read about it.
I haven't actually done anything with it.
If you like FastAPI, but you also like Django,
then maybe Django Ninja is what you're looking for.
Yeah, exactly.
But that being said,
I mean, the new releases with Django, with version 5, with all of the now async views, everything that we're getting with that.
I think Django is one of these things that you know that your code will always work.
But you're starting to get all of these new features as well to get the systems working as well, which is really amazing.
I think they're doing a great job with the Django community now.
Excellent.
Harut?
Okay.
So similar to Andres, we also use Django.
So I'm just going to be basically talking,
building on top of a lot of the stuff that he said.
Big fan of the framework.
I've been using it for years.
I'm trying to think.
We mostly use Django REST framework.
A lot of the stuff, a lot of the views are kind of custom built.
The ORM is very helpful.
Migrations are really helpful.
We do write some raw SQL for some of the more trickier parts of the app,
the explore page where the queries need to be more performant. We use HTTPX to send notifications
to APNS, which is Apple's push notification server. We are big fans of type hints. I have some of this
I've written down here just to kind of point out. PostGIS for some of our geospatial calculations
and most of it runs on, I don't know why I'm saying most of it, all of it runs on AWS on
pretty bare bones EC2 servers.
I kind of like the simpler monolith approach
where you kind of just like
you have a bare bones server,
you set up everything
and then you can use something like Ansible
to help you bring it up
and bring it back down.
But it's just a lot easier
to keep in mind.
And deploy and version
and all those things.
Hey, while you're on,
they got a question on the audience
that I'll go ahead and ask.
And said, in your pin app,
is it difficult to write code
so that changes are saved?
Lauren talked about the block thing.
You kind of just make the changes to the state and they just stay.
But what's the story for yours?
I don't know if I fully understand the question,
but I think there are two things that I could say to answer it.
One is we use user defaults in Swift to take advantage of
saving stuff directly on the device.
But actually, the main thing that we do is we push a lot of logic to the server.
And this is like my favorite way to kind of get around the app store nonsense.
Just, I guess is the nice way to say it.
But the more and more logic that you push to the server means that whenever you need, you find a bug or you have a feature or fix that you want to push out.
You know, you can just change it on your server, redeploy, and then boom, like it's available.
So sometimes like when people on the app complain about issues with like, oh, this is not displaying correctly.
And then I'm like, oh, just refresh the app.
And they're like, oh, that's crazy.
I can't believe that just worked.
And then other times certain things that I have to do on the device, I'm like, oh, well, here's a, now I got to submit this to the app store, wait a day for it to get approved, wait two weeks for everybody's phone to update.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. If you can do it on the server, it's, you just have so much more control. And I mean, Lauren, that's how you and I worked a lot, right? A lot of the things were like, well, if we want something to be visible in this collection or not visible in that collection, or, you know, like, for example,
if you want, say, the free courses to appear in a different section,
but not in the main one, you could just not return them in the API
rather than changing the app potentially, right?
Exactly, yeah.
I was actually, I recall being impressed by how easy it was,
excuse me, for you to make these changes, you know,
as these requirements kind of popped up throughout the process,
you know, you'd be back in 10 minutes.
Okay, it's ready, you know, and it was, I guess,
Mongo is maybe partially a factor in that and how flexible it is.
I made zero database schema changes explicitly on this.
I just wrote code and it just started doing what it needed.
The whole thing through the app.
Yeah.
Dev process.
It was fast.
And I remember telling you when I started my job, it was noticeably not as fast as your back end.
And that's a big company with lots of money.
That should be super fast.
Well, yeah, to be fair, I think it's reasonable to assume an insurance company has a larger and more complex backend.
I think the complexity is also crazy, right?
Like, probably you've got to, we got to apply a bunch of rules to this question, not just return the data.
Yeah.
Sure. Nonetheless, I'll say it again, your backend is crazy fast.
And you kind of got me hooked on the FastAPI Mongo situation.
Yeah, really impressed with all that.
I know you're not using FastAPI for your backend for that, but either way, it's...
I would if I got a choice, actually.
But I'll go ahead and say a little bit about what we're doing on our back end
just to kind of be fair to round it out.
So the Talk Python web app is written in Pyramid.
I love the Pyramid framework.
It has a lot of cool features.
It's really, really fast.
It was one of the very first ones to support Python 3 intentionally.
It might run, but we embrace Python 3.
That was a huge reason that I chose it.
I also love the Chameleon framework for writing templates.
It's really nice.
It's been great.
I like the projects with ambitions.
Start small, but finish big and stay finished.
Stay finished.
So that's really good.
And then it talks to MongoDB using Beanie.
And that combination is just great.
And like Harut, it runs on DigitalOcean, not on AWS.
But it's just a couple of servers, right?
One for the front-end web server, one for the database.
And it's golden.
It goes great.
So yeah, that's pretty much what we got going on there as well.
Yeah, I probably would choose FastAPI if I were to start over.
But rewriting the web app, it's like 20,000 or 30,000 lines of Python.
And it would be cool if it was FastAPI.
But I'm not sure that the benefits of making all those changes are really there.
I already like the framework as it is.
I also came across Litestar recently.
I just interviewed those guys here on the show,
but not yet published.
In the past, but also in the future, in a sense.
And this is a really interesting thing,
also built on Starlette,
that I'm really, really interested in
and checking out more as well.
So there's so many good back-end frameworks to choose from,
but you've got to pick one and go with it.
And then, Jefferyn, I guess maybe just,
it's worth pointing out that Kivi is,
while you don't have online capabilities for your app,
Kivi itself is Python.
So yours is the only mobile app that is all Python,
whereas everybody else's mobile app is something else.
Yeah?
sé que estás construido con python
que es building iphone con servicios en la nube construidos en flash
y también utilizo dropbox en el python para el almacenamiento de archivos en la nube
And I also use Dropbox to save data in the cloud with the same Python.
Okay.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
What services does your app use the Flask online service for?
son utilizados para realizar la publicación de modelos 3d en la nube y que se puedan descargar
desde cualquier otro lado del mundo ok we use a flask to upload everything in the cloud and in
order to be downloaded in any part of the world.
Got it.
Okay.
Very nice.
All right, guys.
I wanted to talk about, I said we would talk about the App Store, but I also want to finish
this on a positive note.
So I think I'm going to not try to make it the focus of App Store horror stories, although
I just don't get why they make it so hard to build apps for these frameworks, especially
Google, especially Apple, but also Google in their own special way. So instead, let's just
round this out with maybe a piece of advice or your thoughts on going from having your app to
getting it in the App Store. Andreas, you want to go first? Yeah, well, from our point of view,
The main thing that has been a bit of a hassle was if you want to publish an iOS app, you need to have a Macintosh.
So we need to go out and buy a Mac.
That was one of the things.
But that being said, what we have done a lot now is we try to automate these things.
We try to automate pushing the app into the various app stores from GitHub, which we use as a repository for it.
I've successfully done that now for the Google Play,
but I can't get the iOS app to build, unfortunately, yet.
That does not surprise me.
On GitHub Actions.
But that's one of the things I think you should invest some time in
because if you do get it working,
you can get a lot of these hassle things out of the way.
And building it on a Mac,
it's four or five clicks that I need to do to build it,
But I need to make sure that I have the right versions everywhere.
And I make sure that I have set the new version of the application in all places.
I need to update that in both on Android and on iOS, various config files I need to update.
So really looking to automating all of that, I think would be a good thing to try and do as much as possible.
Yeah, that sounds fantastic, actually.
Even having one of the app stores automated is really nice.
Yeah.
Haru, you mentioned builds, Xcode, good times.
Well, I guess if we're going to try to end on a positive note,
I don't want to talk.
I don't want to rag on Xcode too much.
Let's not talk about it.
But you do need Xcode to build your app to get it in that store, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
That's for sure.
And if you're like right now, we're what, like four days?
September 12th is the launch of iPhone 15.
And iOS 17 will come out a few days after that.
If you want to try to build something for iOS 17,
you do need Xcode 15, which is still in beta, beta 8.
And that can sometimes be tricky to build for, not everything.
Because like the videos that Apple puts out in June for WWDC,
the API has actually changed since then.
And it's, again, not clear sometimes.
Yeah, we're a little spoiled in the Python world about how it,
if something once worked, it generally continues to work.
Yeah.
Indeed.
I think this next question here from Alan
maybe perfectly lines up your part, Lauren.
I've not yet published a Flutter app,
so I really want to learn how this works,
any automation available.
Yeah, maybe just App Store advice
and chime in on that potentially.
Yeah, sure.
It's a good question.
Short answer is yes,
there are a few different CI/CD platforms available for that.
Like, for example, GitHub Actions, you can get that set up where, you know, you push a command from a terminal and it does all this stuff in the back end and pushes to the store.
I personally have not. That's on my to-do list. I have not actually done that yet.
There's also CircleCI. There's CodeMagic. There's a few different services available.
It's probably a little time consuming to set up.
Let's say you don't want to get into that, which you should. It's definitely worth it in the long run.
But let's just say like we're not for talk Python.
We're doing it man quote unquote manually.
It's still not that bad.
Like basically in Xcode, you create the archive, upload it within Xcode, go on the web app, submit.
Right.
And it's more or less, you know, on the Android side, you basically, as far as Flutter is concerned, it's when it comes to publish, you're publishing a native app.
So you just got to go through both processes.
Android Studio, you build the APK and then upload, you know, and submit right via their respective web app.
So even if you don't go there.
Yeah, it's worth pointing out, like, there's, I think, zero difference from the way you publish a native app and the way you publish these.
From what I do, like, I'll open up Android Studio and go through the steps or I'll go through Xcode and do this.
It just happens to be what's running or compiling behind the scenes had some Flutter component at some point, but they're identical.
People should probably keep that in mind, right?
Yeah, and it does compile to native code.
So as far as the app stores are concerned, it is a native app just with the UI being painted over top.
But yeah, lots of options out there if you want to go that route.
Awesome.
And cross your fingers.
Yeah.
Jeffren, is your app in the app store?
I know.
It's in the Google Play Store, right?
Google Play Store.
Yes.
Yeah.
yeah yeah we have online in app store just only in place or
yeah and do you have advice for people getting their apps into google play
follow the guidelines of privacy
overall and archives exploration
and that have given headaches for me since the updating of sdk 30.
all right excellent excellent well everyone this has been really fun and i said
not going to share app store horror stories, so we're going to pin this on a positive note.
I think in general, there's just so much possibility in mobile app development these days.
I don't know about you all, but when I first saw an iPhone or a smartphone,
my head was full of ideas of like, oh my gosh, you could do this, you could do that. It's just such
an open world for interesting things.
And it's really cool to hear
how you're all building your different apps
and putting them together.
So thank you for being here.
And yeah, it's been great.
Thanks for sharing your experiences.
Thanks a lot. This was great.
Thank you.
Thanks, Michael. This was a lot of fun.
Bye, everyone.
Bye.
Bye-bye.